1 ) What Is Salesforce?
  Salesforce is customer success platform,which is designed to help us in sell, service, market, analyze.
  Salesforce has everything which we need to run our business from anywhere.Using standard products and features,
  we can manage relationships with customers,collaborate and engage with employees and partners,and can store our
  data securely in the cloud.

2)What Is CRM?
   CRM stands for Customer Relationship Management.This technology allows us to manage relationships with our
   customers and track data related to all of our interactions.

3)How Salesforce Organizes our Data?
  Salesforce organizes our data into objects and records.Objects are table and record is row.
  Object:A table in the database e.g (Account ,Lead, opportunity,Reports,Contact )Or an object is a tab on Salesforce.com
  Record:An item which we track in our database e.g then record is a row present in table.
  Field	:A place where we store a value.Field is column of table.
  Org   :Short for “organization,” the place where all our data,configuration, and customization lives. 
         we log in to access it.This is called “instance of Salesforce”.
  App	:A set of fields, objects, permissions, and functionality to support a business process.

4) What is Salesforce Standard and Custom Objects?
  Standard objects are objects that are included with Salesforce.Common business objects like Account,
  Contact,Lead and Opportunity, Report,dashboards,campaigns, cases.
  Custom objects are objects that we create to store information that's specific to our company or industry.
  
   How do we create a custom object in Salesforce?
  From Setup,enter Objects in the Quick Find box,then select Objects.
  Click New Custom Object.
  Follow the wizard to complete the fields for our custom object.
  Save the new object.

5)Explain all Standard Objects present in Salesforce?
  Accounts:Accounts are the companies we are doing business with.we can also do business with individual people
  (like solo contractors) using something called Person Accounts.
  Contacts:Contacts are the people who work at an Account.
  Leads  :A lead is an unqualified contact or any potential client or customer we meet who hasn't been qualified 
  as a prospect is a lead.
  Opportunities:Opportunities are qualified leads that we have converted.Opportunities are deals in progress.
  Opportunity records track details about deals,including which accounts they're for,who the players are,and
  the amount of sales.
  When we convert the Lead,we create an Account and Contact along with the Opportunity.


6) Why We Built Lightning Experience ,What Makes Lightning Experience So Special in Salesforce.
   Salesforce Lightning Experience,It’s fast and beautiful.It’s unique to each sales representatives.
   It helps sales representatives sell faster,with personalized alerts and an interactive assistant to help 
   each sales representative focus on what’s important.
   
   Few Benefit of Lightning Experience in Salesforce.
   We can Navigate through pages and switch between apps with ease using the navigation bar.
     We can Find records fast with powerful search capabilities,including the ability to view recent records
     and top search results.
  

7 ) Salesforce Testing challenges
     Writing test cases with different roles and mentioning the settings.
     Some of the standard functionalities can’t be removed even they are not in use.
     GUI tests don’t work when we switch to the test environment
     Automated tests should able to work in all our test environments
     Field Locators are how  automate tests,find the field or button on a page.There is an issue creating field locators for the 
     Salesforce screens as some field IDs differ between Organisations.
