   
1)What is Relationship in Salesforce?  what are the Types of Relationship and  what is difference between Lookup and master Details relationship?
   A relationship is a bi-directional association between two objects.Relationships allow us to create links between one object and another. 
  Lookup Relationship
  Master-Detail Relationship
  Many-to-Many relationship 
   
   How can  we  create many to many relationship ?
   Lookup and master-detail relationship are one-to-many relationships.
   We can create a many-to-many relationship by using a junction object.
   Junction object is a custom object with two master-detail relationships.
  
 LookUp Relationship :It is a loosely coupled relationship among Salesforce objects,where even if a parent record gets deleted,the child records 
                         remain in the system.Here,both the parent and child have their own sharing settings and security controls.
                       
 Master Details Relationship:It is a strongly coupled relationship among Salesforce objects,which means if a master record gets deleted, then the child
                              records associated with it are also deleted.Both doesn't have their own setting.security setting of a parent object applies to the child object.
                              
  Differnce in Look Up and master Details Relationship 
  Look up       ----->Roll-up summary field cannot be created.
                ----->Parent record is not required while creating a child record.
                ----->Lookup fields are not required on the page layout of the detail record.
                ----->we can have a maximum of 40 lookups on an object.
  Master Details ----->Roll-up summary fields can only be created on Master records which will calculate the SUM, AVG, MIN of the Child records.
                 ----->Parent record is always required in order to create a child record.
                 ----->Master-detail field is always required on the page layout of the detail record.
                 ----->we can have a maximum of 2 master details fields on an object.
                 
                 
 2) Does an object can have both relationships (Lookup Relationship & Master Detail Relationship) at a time?
    Yes, single object can have both relationships at a time.      
 
 3)Can we convert the lookup relationship to Master Detail relationship?
    Yes, We can convert the lookup relationship to master detail relationship only if all the existing record has valid lookup field values.
    
 4) What is profile ?Can two users have the same profile?
    A profile in Salesforce is a group/collection of settings and permissions that define what a user can do in Salesforce.
    A profile controls “Object permissions, Field permissions, User permissions,Tab settings, App settings, Apex class access,
    Visualforce page access, Page layouts, Record Types, Login hours & Login IP ranges.
    Example System Administrator, Developer, Sales Representative.A profile can be assigned to many users,but a user can be assigned a single profile at a time.
    
    Yes, two users can have same profile  e.g In organization 2 users can have designation as Senior analyst.
    
5)  Differnce between Role and Profile ?
      Role ----->The role helps in defining data visibility
           ----->A role defines what user data a user can see based on hierarchy
           ----->Defining role to a user is not mandatory always
    role i.e - call centre agent ,reimbursement specailsit , clinical support specialist 
           
     Profile ----->A profile sets the limit of permission what a user can do in the organization
             -----> Profile defines permissions
             ----->Defining profile is always mandatory while creating the user.
    Profile i.e - canada base profile , Brazil base profile 

6)  What is permission set in Salesforce ?
    A permission set is a collection of settings and permissions that give users access to various tools and functions.
    Users can have only one profile but,depending on the Salesforce edition, they can have multiple permission sets.
     
     Navigation: Setup -> Administer -> Manage users -> Permission sets
   
   Examples: 
   1.We have many users in our organization with some fundamental job functions.We can assign all of then with one profile that grants
   them all access to do their job. But some set of people are working on special apps or some special functionality, for this type of 
   special users we can create permission sets and can be assigned to them.

  2.Some users need some temporary access to a specific set of fields and objects we can create a permission set with those object & field 
    access and we can assign those specific users.

7) What is object permission ?
   In Salesforce we can provide permissions to object at profile/permissions sets level. 
   At Object level we can provide read, create, edit, delete, view all & Modify all permissions in profiles/permission sets.
  
  Navigation to provide object permissions--->
  Setup -> Administer -> Manage Users -> profiles ->select the profile we want to give object permissions and go to object permissions 
           and provide required object permissions to profile.
           
           
8) What is Report in Salesforce ? How many records can be shown in matrix, tabular & summary reports?
   Report it is a document which provides a clear picture to the management.
   In Salesforce.com we can easily generate reports in different style and can create reports in very short time and also we can schedule the reports.
   1.Tabula Reports --->Simple listing of data without any subtotals.
                    --->This type of reports are used to list all accounts, List of contacts, List of opportunities
   2.Summary Reports--->This type of reports provide a listing of data with groupings and sub totals.
                    ---->Example :All opportunities for our team sub totaled by Sales Stage and Owner.
   3.Matrix Reports --->This type of reports allow us to group records both by row and by column. 
                    ---> we Use matrix reports when we want to see data by two different dimensions that aren’t related e.g such as date and product.
                        Example: Summarize opportunities by month vertically and by account horizontally.
   4.Joined Report ---->This type of reports allow us to group and show data from multiple report types in different views.
                   ---->Example: we can build a report to show opportunity,case and activity data for our accounts.
        The issues we face on joined reports?   (((We can not export)))  
        
    We can create up to 2k records in Matrix, Tabular & Summary Reports.                     
                 
9) What is Dashboard?
   Dashboard is the graphical representation of the data generated by a report or multiple reports.Dashboard component types can be charts, tables,
   gauges, metrics etc.Salesforce dashboard is capable of displaying 20 reports at a time.
 
10) what is Salesforce data Loader/Data import Wizard ?what is use of Salesforce Data Loader ?
     Salesforce data loader : It is a  tool to load bulk amount of data into our salesforce object .
     By using Salesforce data loader we can load up to 5,00,000 records.
     By using Salesforce data loader we can schedule the loads ----->Insert, Update, Upsert, Delete, Hard delete, Export, Export All
     Upsert use:Data Loader Upsert is an operation in which we can Update records to an existing record and Insert new records.
     
     When importing data, Data Loader reads, extracts, and loads data from comma separated values(CSV) files or from database conections. 
     When exporting data, it outputs CSV files. It is a Stand-alone tool, downloadable.
     
    Data Import Wizard : It is a tool,accessible through the Setup menu,which allow us to  import data in common standard objects, 
    such as contacts, leads, accounts, as well as data in custom objects.It can import up to 50,000 records at a time.
    It is a cloud-based tool, not downloadable.

     
11) What is Work Flow in Salesforce? Type of workflow in Salesforce ?
    Workflow in Salesforce is basically a business logic engine which automates certain actions based on particular criteria.
    Immediate action Workflow      :Immediate action Workflow triggers immediate action when criteria is met.
    Time Dependent action Workflow :Time Dependent action workflow triggers the action like sending automated E-mails,field update, 
                                     Task assignment and sending outbound Messages depending on the time set.
   What actions are available in the workflow? 
     Actions available in the workflow are
     Email Alert
     Task
     Field Update
     Outbound Message
                                     
12) what is validation rule in salesforce ? What is sharing rule in salesforce?
    A Validation Rule is a rule on a field which verifies that data entered by a User into the record meets a certain criteria, before the User can save the record.
    Example :Value of filed  >100 And <1000
            : any date related field [EndDate]>=[StartDate]
         
Imp>    Sharing rule: It's a rule  written to give edit access (public read and write) or public read only access to certain individuals in Salesforce org.
    It is used to grant access to records to specific users, public groups, or roles
    In Salesforce Manual Sharing, records are shared individually with other users by using the share button on the record.

13) What is the junction object and what is its use?
    Junction object is a custom object which is used to build many-to-many relationships between objects.
    Note: we can't use standard object as Junction Object.
    Example : Recruiting application
            : where a position for a job can be linked to many candidates and in the same manner, a candidate can be related to the different locations.
            
14)What is the meaning of Governor Limits in Salesforce?
   In Salesforce, Governor Limits helps us  to controls how much data or how many records we can store in the shared databases.
   Salesforce uses a single database to store data from different clients.
    Examples:
 
                                                   Synchronous Governor Limit  	Asynchronous Limit
Total number of SOQL queries issued in salesforce	           100	                 200
Total number of SOSL queries issued in Salesforce	            20	
Total number of DML statements issued	                        150	
Total number of records retrieved by a single SOSL query	      2000	
Total number of records retrieved by SOQL queries	            50000	


15)  What all security Level is present In Salesforce ??
       Mainly there are 4 level of security in Salesforce
       Organization Level Security (This is applied at org level like creating and managing users,setting password policies)
       Profile Level Security      (This type of security is applied on object,fields,application,page layouts)
       Field Level Security        (Field-level security is applied on page layout or object whether a user can edit,see or delete the value for a particular field. )
       Record Level Security       (This type of security is applied over records in Salesforce Org)
                                    The following ways we can share records between users
                                    OWD (Organization-Wide Defaults) , Role Hierarchy,Sharing settings,Manual Sharing

16) What is public group in salesforce ? what is use of public group ?
    A public group is a collection of individual users, or groups that all have a commmon function.
    Public Groups—Only administrators can create public groups that is used by everyone in the organization.
    The purpose of having public groups is to assign things or resources to it which can be  used by everyone in the organization.

17) What is a page Layout and record type  in Salesforce?
    Page Layout :It's a structure which gives detail idea about how pages are organized.
                :it gives idea about  fields, related lists, and Custom Links a user can see.
                :it gives idea of Field properties – visible, read-only and required.

    Record Type :It allows us to define different sets of picklist values for both standard and custom picklists.
    benefits of record types in Salesforce:
    a) To Configure multiple page layouts for a single object.
    b)It allows us to define different sets of picklist values for both standard and custom picklists.
                        
18) What is Picklist and What are the datatypes present in Salesforce ?
     Picklist                :Picklists are used in Salesforce to capture static data and define a list wherein users can select via accessing a drop-down menu.
     Datatype in Salesforce  :Picklist,Boolean,Currency,Date,DateTime,Email(email address),ID(primary key field of salesforce object),Phone, Int,
                               String, Time,URL
                               
     Types of Picklist in salesforce :
     Restricted Picklist 
     Unrestricted Picklist
     Dependent Picklist   : A dependent picklist is a custom or multi-select picklist for which the valid values depend on 
                           the value of another field, called the controlling field 
            
19) wHAT Is approval process in Salesforce ?How it's different from Workflow ?
     Approval Process: An approval process is a type of business process that includes steps to formally approve work from different levels of the organization.
     
      Approval Process
      Approval Processes are triggered explicitly when we click on Submit for Approval.
      Approval history can be tracked here.
      If the record is set to “locked down” that record can not be changed.
      
20) what is process builder in salesforce?
     Process builder is a tool which automates the business process like immediate action and scheduled action and gives a
      graphical representation of our process as we build.
      It combines multiple workflows into a single process and can have a chain of criteria (if-then statements )
      Actions that can be performed with Process builder:
            Create and update records.
            Send an Email alert.
            Submit a record for approval.
            Invoke a process from another process.
        
21) Difference between SOQL Salesforce Object Query Language  and SOSL Salesforce Object Search Language ?Which is fast SOQL or SOSL?
     a)SOQL(Salesforce Object Query Language )retrieves the records from the database by using “SELECT” keyword.
       SOSL(Salesforce Object Search Language) retrieves the field from the database by using the “FIND” keyword.
     b)SOQL can be used in triggers and classes but SOSL only used in classes.
     c) SOQL Return Records and SOSL returns field.
     d) SOSL is generally faster than SOQL if the search expression uses a CONTAINS term.
      
       example of a SOSL query that searches for accounts and contacts that have any fields with the word 'SFDC'.
       List<List<SObject>> searchList = [FIND 'SFDC' IN ALL FIELDS 
                                      RETURNING Account(Name), Contact(FirstName,LastName)];
                                      
       example of a SOQL query:
       // querying list of records and stores in list variable “acc”
        List<Account>  acc = [Select Name from Account where industry = ‘education’];
                                  
 22)What is a Trigger? What are the types of Triggers?
     Before and after changes are made to a record, the custom actions performed in Salesforce are called Triggers.
     Triggers can be used to invoke Apex code.
     These are Trigger action:
     insert
     delete
     update
     merge
     upsert
     undelete

      23) What do you know about Apex?How many ways are there to Call an Apex class?
    Apex is a programming language that acts as a database stored procedure while using Java type syntax.
    It helps to add business logic to a Visualforce page or even button-clicks, system events etc.
    From another Class
    From Visual Force Page
    Using Triggers
     
24) Define sandbox.org. Name different Sandbox types.In which sandox QA , UAT and devlopment is done?
    A sandbox is a place where new features/customizations can be tested before they can be applied to the production environment. 
    The different types of sandboxes are:
     Developer       : devlopement and unit testing
     Developer Pro   :devlopemen and poc(Proof of Concept)
     Partial Copy    : QA , Integration Testing,User Acceptance Testing
     Full Copy       : Performance or Load Testing	,Staging
     
     
25) What the difference between isNull and isBlank?
        isNull: It supports for a number field
        isBlank: It supports for a Text field
        
26) Is it possible to schedule a dynamic dashboard in Salesforce?
    No, it is not possible to schedule a dynamic dashboard in Salesforce.
    
27) What is an Audit trail? 
    The Audit trail in Salesforce is a unique feature that helps in tracking the changes that have been made in the organization by
     us and other administrators.This audit trail shows us the information of the twenty most recently made changes in our organization.
     Example:Below are the things that we could come to know: 
     The date and time. 
     Username of who made the changes.  
     What the change was. 

28) what is difference between classic and lightning salesforce?
    salesforce lightning is having new and improved inteface where as Classic salesforce it's not.
    Salesforce Lightning comes with a higher level of security because of "locker service" feature which protect CRM platform from 
    malacious data where as classic salesforce doesn't have such feature.

29) What is formulae field in salesforce ?
    A formula field is a read-only field whose value is evaluated from the formula or expression defined by us.
    We can define the formula field on both standards as well as custom objects.

30)  What is Lead, Opportunity, Account,Contact ? How we convert Lead??
      Lead   : People who are interested in our company to do business.(Not sure if they're going to buy from you.)
      Contact:people with whom we are having a business relationship (possibly they have bought from us in the past.)
      Account: A business entity for which contact works.
      Opportunity: Sales events related to an Account and one or more Contacts.
       we cannot create an opportunity without converting a lead into Account and Contact.
      
      we Click the Lead tab, Open the Lead record that needs to be converted and click Convert. 
      In the Account Name field,select Existing Account or can create new one and Complete the other details on the page as per the requirement and click Convert.
      Lead can be converted into account , contact and opportunity.

31) what is folder security in salesforce ?What kind of report is used for the dashboard in salesforce ?
     This will decide the accessibility of that report folder.
     This option is available in sharing option in reports.
      Which can be shared with Users, Role and subordinates and public group.
      Access options are a viewer, editor and manager (high access).

      Only summary and matrix report can be used to generate dashboards.

32) what is WhoId and WhatId?
    WhoId is the API name for the “Name” field on activity-related objects.
    WhatId is the API name for the “Related To” field on the activity-related objects.

33)what is Saas and paas? what is difference between them?
   Saas Stands for Software as a Service,it provides ready-to-use application that's hosted in the cloud.
     Example: Gmail , Salesforce,dropbox
   PaaS Stands for Platform as a Service,It provides a cloud-hosted platform for developing, running, and managing applications.
     Example:Force.com , AWS

34)https://www.sfapps.info/100-salesforce-testing-interview-questions-and-answers/( Scenario-Based Interview Questions for a Salesforce QA)

   





    














     
    
     



















 
 
                                    

                                     
                                     
       
       
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    



















    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    






















































      
      
     
     
     

     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
    
     
     
    
                               
                               
     
















  

     
     











   



               
    
   
   
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           








    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
  
                              
                              
      
  
