1) What is Subscribers in  Salesforce marketing Cloud?
   Subsribers are the customer who opted-in to receive email communication from marketing cloud.
   Subscriber belongs to All Subscribers and List.
   Inside subsribers List we can create a new subscriber with Valid data(Email address,Subscriberkey(Primary key),Subsriber status,
   profile attribute(first name ,Last name), profile preferences(e.g HTML email)

2) what is List in marketing cloud( Email studio)?
   List is default method of storing subsriber data in email application.
   Requires minimum configuartion and set up.
   Email address and Subsriber key are the key attributes for List.
   Creating a List-------> Email studio - Subscribers- My List - Create
   Types of List(Public List and private List)
  
3) What is Data Extension and type of data extension?
   Data Extension is custom table which stores the data in marketing cloud.
   It provides flexible data and runs faster and store huge data.
   we can interact with Salesforce data extensions.One is in the Salesforce Email Studio and the other one is in Contact Builder.
   set their data retention policy.like 5 days or 9 days.
   
   Creation of data extension method :
       Create from new 
       Create from existing
       Create from template
   
    Different Types of Data Extensions:
     a)Standard Data Extensions
     b)Filtered Data Extensions
     c)Random   Data Extensions

   a) A Standard data extension allows us to create custom fields and data types in our table.
   b) A Filtered data extension allows us to filter fields, measures,and filters for a sendable data extension from a source data extension.
      we have to have a Standard data extension to create a Filtered data extension.
   c) A Random data extension allows us to randomly select subscribers from a source data extension.Just like with a Filtered data extension,
      we need a Standard data extension to derive a random data extension.
   
   Sendable data extension   -->Data extension contain subsribers data if it is marked as used for sending then it is called Sendable data extension.
   NonSendable data extension-->Data Extension also contain data like purchases ,url to images which we want to display these are Non-Sendable DE.


6)  Difference between List and Data Extension?
    List is slow and Data Extension is fast
    Data extension have few more datatype apart from List data type(Date,Test,Boolean,number) like Email address,Decimal,Phone number.

   
7) What is A/B testing in Email studio ?
    It is a tool which is used to optimize email campaigns by automaticaly spliting the audience,calculating winner and sending the winner reminder.
    we perform A/B Testing on SubjectLines,email,content area,from name ,send date and Pre-header.


8) what is  Tracking in Email studio?
    It is used to track email sent( Total No of email , job id , emailname ,dateofsent all these details).

9) what is content builder in email studio?
   Content Builder is our cross-channel content management tool that allows us to consolidate images,documents,and content in a single location for use in the Marketing Cloud.
   It is used to create an email based on templates, HTML,Text,Existing Email.Content can include images, content blocks, templates, videos, documents.
   Content Builder is used to organize our assets, make creating emails efficient.
    
    Creation of Content folder( Local folder and Shared )
    Shared content :That is used by all the Business unit (TestBU,Prod,AdidasAG,LAM)
   
10)what is journey builder and what's the use of journey builder?
   Marketing Cloud's Journey Builder is a campaign planning tool that enables us to design and automate campaigns that guide customers through their journey with a brand.
   It allows us to create the journey across the email, mobile, advertising, and the web.
   
   Use of Journey:
   It Connects to customers on the digital channels.
   It automates the journey.
   Analyze and evaluate the performance of email at each step.
   
11) what are the different studio present in Marketing cloud and What's the use of each studio?

12) What is Marketing Cloud Connect ?
    Marketing Cloud Connect is a tool, through which data from either  SalesForce Sales Cloud  or  SalesForce Service Cloud  can be synced with the SalesForce Marketing Cloud.


   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
