
1)What is Relationship in Salesforce?  Types of Relationship and difference in salesforce ?
   A relationship is a bi-directional association between two objects.Relationships allow us to create links between one object and another. 
  Lookup Relationship
  Master-Detail Relationship
  Many-to-Many relationship 
  External Look up 
  
  LookUp Relationship :It is a loosely coupled relationship among Salesforce objects, where  even if a parent record gets deleted, the child records 
                       remain in the system. Here, both the parent and child have their own sharing settings and security controls.
                       
  Master Details Relationship :It is a strongly coupled relationship among Salesforce objects, which means if a master record gets deleted, then the child
                              records associated with it are also deleted.Both doesn't have their own setting.security setting of a parent object applies to the child object.
                              
  Differnce in Look Up and master Details Relation ship 
  
  Look up       ----->Roll-up summary field cannot be created.
                ----->Parent record is not required while creating a child record.
                ----->Lookup fields are not required on the page layout of the detail record.
                ----->we can have a maximum of 40 lookups on an object.
  Master Details ----->Roll-up summary fields can only be created on Master records which will calculate the SUM, AVG, MIN of the Child records.
                 ----->Parent record is always required in order to create a child record.
                 ----->Master-detail field is always required on the page layout of the detail record.
                 ----->we can have a maximum of 2 master details on an object.
                 
                 
 2) Does an object can have both relationships (Lookup Relationship & Master Detail Relationship) at a time?
    Yes, single object can have both relationships at a time.      
 
 3)Can we convert the lookup relationship to Master Detail relationship?
    Yes, We can convert the lookup relationship to master detail relationship only if all the existing record has valid lookup field values.
    
 4) What is profile ?
    A profile in Salesforce is a group/collection of settings and permissions that define what a user can do in Salesforce.
    A profile controls “Object permissions, Field permissions, User permissions,Tab settings, App settings, Apex class access,
    Visualforce page access, Page layouts, Record Types, Login hours & Login IP ranges.
    Example System Administrator, Developer, Sales Representative.A profile can be assigned to many users,but a user can be assigned a single profile at a time.
    
    Types of Profile:
    Standard Profile ---->salesforce provides below standard profiles. We cannot delete standard ones.
                          Read Only, Standard User, Marketing User, Contract Manager, Solution Manager & System Administrator. 
    
    Custom Profile ------> Custom profile defined by us.They can be deleted if there are no users assigned to that particular one.
    
    Navigation: setup -> Administer -> Manage users -> Profiles
             
    
5)  Differnce between Role and Profile ?
      Role ----->The role helps in defining data visibility
           ----->A role defines what user data a user can see based on hierarchy
           ----->Defining role to a user is mandatory always
           
     Profile ----->A profile sets the limit of permission what a user can do in the organization
             -----> Profile defines permissions
             ----->Defining profile is not always mandatory
             
6)  What is permission set in Salesforce ?
    A permission set is a collection of settings and permissions that give users access to various tools and functions.
    Users can have only one profile but,depending on the Salesforce edition, they can have multiple permission sets.
     
     Navigation: Setup -> Administer -> Manage users -> Permission sets
   
   Examples: 
   1.We have many users in your organization with some fundamental job functions.We can assign all of then with one profile that grants
   them all access to do their job. But some set of people are working on special apps or some special functionality, for this type of 
   special users we can create permission sets and can be assigned to them.

  2.Some users need some temporary access to a specific set of fields and objects we can create a permission set with those object & field 
    access and we can assign those specific users.

7) What is object permission ?
   In Salesforce we can provide permissions to object at profile/permissions sets level. 
   At Object level we can provide read, create, edit, delete, view all & Modify all permissions in profiles/permission sets.
  
  Navigation to provide object permissions--->
  Setup -> Administer -> Manage Users -> profiles ->select the profile we want to give object permissions and go to object permissions 
           and provide required object permissions to profile.
           
           
8) What is Report in Salesforce ?
   Report it is a document which provides a clear picture to the management.
   In Salesforce.com we can easily generate reports in different style and can create reports in very short time and also we can schedule the reports.
   1.Tabula Reports --->Simple listing of data without any subtotals.
                    --->This type of reports are used to list all accounts, List of contacts, List of opportunities
   2.Summary Reports--->This type of reports provide a listing of data with groupings and sub totals.
                    ---->Example :All opportunities for our team sub totaled by Sales Stage and Owner.
   3.Matrix Reports --->This type of reports allow us to group records both by row and by column. 
                    ---> we Use matrix reports when we want to see data by two different dimensions that aren’t related e.g such as date and product.
                        Example: Summarize opportunities by month vertically and by account horizontally.
   4.Joined Report ----> This type of reports enable us to adopt five different blocks to display different types of related data.
                   ----> we use joined reports to group and show data from multiple report types in different views.
                   ---->Example: we can build a report to show opportunity,case and activity data for our accounts.
                 
9) What is Dashboard?
   Dashboard is the graphical representation of the data generated by a report or multiple reports.Dashboard component types can be charts, tables,
   gauges, metrics, or other components that we can create with VisualForce.
   
10) what is Salesforce data Loader/Data import Wizard ?what is use of Salesforce Data Loader ?
     Salesforce data loader is a good tool to load bulk amount of data into our salesforce object .
     By using Salesforce data loader we can load up to 5,00,000 records.
     By using Salesforce data loader we can schedule the loads ----->Insert, Update, Upsert, Delete, Hard delete, Export, Export All
     
     When importing data, Data Loader reads, extracts, and loads data from comma separated values(CSV) files or from database conections. 
     When exporting data, it outputs CSV files.
     
     We can use data loader in following 2 ways.
     User Interface
     Command Line
     
    Data Import Wizard : It is a tool,accessible through the Setup menu,which allow us to  import data in common standard objects, 
    such as contacts, leads, accounts, as well as data in custom objects.It can import up to 50,000 records at a time
     
     
     
11)




     
     











   



               
    
   
   
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           








    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
                 
  
                              
                              
      
  
