
 ******************************************What is Salesforce Marketing Cloud************************************************************
 Marketing Cloud is comprised of a suite of studios and builders(Email Studio, Journey Builder, etc.).
This  platform lets us manage messaging through multiple channels: email, sms, ads, and push.
Automation Studio and Journey Builder allow customers to automate their marketing programs to increase reach and efficiency.
Tracking and reports provide analytics that allow customers to measure and improve their programs.
The API and SFTP enable integration with any external system. Customers use these to integrate with web analytics,
data warehouses,CRM systems,POS systems,custom apps, and more.


1) What is Subscribers in  Salesforce marketing Cloud?
   Subsribers are the customer who opted-in to receive email communication from marketing cloud.
   Subscriber belongs to All Subscribers and List.
   Inside subsribers List we can create a new subscriber with Valid data(Email address,Subscriberkey(Primary key),Subsriber status,
   profile attribute(first name ,Last name), profile preferences(e.g HTML email)

2) what is List in marketing cloud( Email studio)?
   List is default method of storing subsriber data in email application.
   Requires minimum configuartion and set up.
   Email address and Subsriber key are the key attributes for List.
   Creating a List-------> Email studio - Subscribers- My List - Create
   Types of List(Public List and private List)
  
3) What is Data Extension and type of data extension?
   Data Extension is custom table which stores the data in marketing cloud.
   It provides flexible data and runs faster and store huge data.
   we can interact with Salesforce data extensions.One is in the Salesforce Email Studio and the other one is in Contact Builder.
   set their data retention policy.like 5 days or 9 days.
   
   Creation of data extension method :
       Create from new 
       Create from existing
       Create from template
   
    Different Types of Data Extensions:
     a)Standard Data Extensions
     b)Filtered Data Extensions
     c)Random   Data Extensions

   a) A Standard data extension allows us to create custom fields and data types in our table.
   b) A Filtered data extension allows us to filter fields, measures,and filters for a sendable data extension from a source data extension.
      we have to have a Standard data extension to create a Filtered data extension.
   c) A Random data extension allows us to randomly select subscribers from a source data extension.Just like with a Filtered data extension,
      we need a Standard data extension to derive a random data extension.
   
   Sendable data extension   -->Data extension contain subsribers data if it is marked as used for sending then it is called Sendable data extension.
   NonSendable data extension-->Data Extension also contain data like purchases ,url to images which we want to display these are Non-Sendable DE.


6)  Difference between List and Data Extension?
    List is slow and Data Extension is fast
    Data extension have few more datatype apart from List data type(Date,Test,Boolean,number) like Email address,Decimal,Phone number.

   
7) What is A/B testing in Email studio ?What components of an email can be tested in A/B Testing?How is the winning email selected in A/B Testing?
    It is a tool which is used to optimize email campaigns by automaticaly spliting the audience,calculating winner and sending the winner reminder.
    we perform A/B Testing on SubjectLines,email,content area,from name ,send date and Pre-header.
    In the A/B Testing configuration, we set the criteria to decide the winning email. we can choose the winner by 2 options:
    Highest unique open rate               : the version with the highest unique open rate.
    Highest unique click-through rate (CTR): the version with the highest unique click-through rate.


8) what is  Tracking in Email studio?
    It is used to track email sent( Total No of email , job id , emailname ,dateofsent all these details).

9) what is content builder in email studio?
   Content Builder is our cross-channel content management tool that allows us to consolidate images,documents,and content in a single location for use in the Marketing Cloud.
   It is used to create an email based on templates, HTML,Text,Existing Email.Content can include images, content blocks, templates, videos, documents.
   Content Builder is used to organize our assets, make creating emails efficient.
    
    Creation of Content folder( Local folder and Shared )
    Shared content :That is used by all the Business unit (TestBU,Prod,AdidasAG,LAM)
   
10)what is journey builder and what's the use of journey builder?
   Marketing Cloud's Journey Builder is a campaign planning tool that enables us to design and automate campaigns that guide customers through their journey with a brand.
   It allows us to create the journey across the email, mobile, advertising, and the web.
   
   Use of Journey:
   It Connects to customers on the digital channels.
   It automates the journey.
   Analyze and evaluate the performance of email at each step.
   
11) what are the different studio present in Marketing cloud and What's the use of each studio?
    Automation Studio:Automation Studio allows activities such as send email,SQL query, data extract, and wait activity.
    Email Studio     : Email Studio is a very important part of the Salesforce Marketing Cloud, it is used to build and send personalized emails from basic newsletters.
                     : It delivers promotional, transactional, and triggered messages and also track and optimize the drive performance.
    Query Studio     : Query studio allows us to quickly run queries in the Marketing Cloud with a similar experience to SQL Server Studio or MySQL

12) What is Marketing Cloud Connect ?
    Marketing Cloud Connect is a tool, through which data from either  SalesForce Sales Cloud  or SalesForce Service Cloud  
    can be synced with the SalesForce Marketing Cloud.
    
13) Which content can be included in Content Builder? 
    To generate email templates in the Content Builder, we use disposal text, image, free form, button, HTML data, and dynamic content.
 
14)How does Dynamic Email work?
   For Dynamic email,we can define a dynamic content block in an email to display(render) information based on the subscriber’s 
   attributes, data extension values, or audiences.Example instead of building 2 emails for a Male and Female customer, we can build a dynamic
   content block that can render the content based on Gender.
   
15) What are the different Email sending options in SFMC?
    Different Email sending option present in SFMC .
    Single Email Send  :It is a straightforward way of sending an email.We open the email,click on send, choose the audience and 
                        other email send configuration, and send straight away.
    User-Initiated Send:In a User-initiated send,we create a definition of an email send, and send it right away or schedule to send in the future.
                        In a user-initiated send, we select the email, audience, and time of the send.
    Triggered Email Send: A triggered email Send is an email communication sent to an individual subscriber in response to a subscriber action. 
                         Triggered Sends trigger a Salesforce Marketing Cloud email from Salesforce using the Salesforce Marketing Cloud integration action.
 
 16)Is it possible for customer to come back in a journey?
     Depending on how the journey has been customized in the Journey settings, it can be set as not allowing the customers to re-enter the journeys,
     allowing them to re-enter anytime, or to re-enter after exiting. 
      Mainly 3 options possible :
      No re-entry
      Re-entry anytime
      Re-entry after exiting
      
 17) What are the different data sources for Journey Builder?
    Data Extension     : contacts in a sendable data extension enter a journey
    Lists (or Audience): like a MobileConnect list
    Salesforce Data    : Salesforce contact database
    API                : by configuring an integration to admit contacts into a journey
 
 18) What Message actions can be performed in Journey Builder?
     The List of Message actions that can be performed in Journey builder:
     Email, SMS, LINE message, mobile push notification, inbox messages, in-app message.
     
 19) What is the difference between Engagement Split & Decision Split?
     Engagement Split activity sends contacts down a Yes or No path based on whether they open or click a link in an email or the email bounces.
     Decision Split in Journey Builder evaluates the data of that contact and makes them flow in the path they are eligible for.
      
 20) Which communication channels are available in salesforce marketing cloud ?
     There are four channels of communication with customers available in SalesForce Marketing Cloud 
     :email, MobileConnect for SMS and MMS messages,
     :GroupConnect for messaging apps like Messenger, and MobilePush to send  mobile device notifications.
   
 21) What is Wait activity in Journey ?Explain different Wait controls available in Journey Builder?
     A Wait Activity is a period of time that contacts are held between other activities. There are types of wait activity:
     Wait by Duration: waits for specified hours, days, etc
     Wait Until Date: waits until the specified end day and time
     Wait by Attribute: waits until the day and time stored in a date field is reached
     
     
 22)What activities can be performed in the Automation studio?
    Send Email Activity: By this activity we choose and configure an email message to be sent
    SQL Query Activity: By this we retrieve or store data extension or view data information.
    Data Extract Activity: By this activity we create zipped files for our use outside the SFMC and also to convert an XML file into other formats to import into SFMC.
    Wait Activity: This activity is used to wait for a specific duration or until a specific time before performing the next step.
    
23)What are the different data models available in SFMC and what is the difference between them?
   Different Data model avilable in SFMC .
   List 
   Data extension
   
   List         : A list is a collection of subscribers that receive our communications.
                : Lists contain less than 500,000 subscribers,less import speed and a limited number of subscriber attributes.
  DataExtension :Data extension is a table within the database that contains our data.
                :It can hold greater than 500,000 subscribers,great import speed,and can be used for SOAP and REST APIs.
                
24)What are publication lists, and when would we use them? What is the difference between the All Subscribers List and a Publication List?
    Publication lists are used to manage opt-ins for our email account in Email Studio .
    It also controls how subscribers receive the sends the email. 
     A Publication list is used while  sending email messages and SMS messages to a sendable data extension.
   
     Example: we Create a separate publication list for each category like newsletters, advertisements, and alerts.
            : Each list has its own subscription status of the customers for that category.
            
      All Subscriber List :The All Subscribers list is the master list of records in SFMC.
      Publication List    : It  is like a subset of subscribers from the All Subscribers List.
       Example If a subscriber is unsubscribed in the All Subscribers list,the subscriber is unsubscribed from all Publication Lists.
       
       
25) What Data Integration options are available in Salesforce Marketing Cloud (SFMC)?
    Data integration options avilable in SFMC APIs , Cloudpages,FTP and Manual import.
    FTP : Every SFMC org comes with an SFTP account.
        : Marketing Cloud creates Import,Export and Reports folders in our SFTP folder.we use these SFTP folders to import data into lists and data extensions.
        
   APIs: REST and SOAP APIs is used to import or export data from SFMC.
       : REST API exposes more extensive access to Marketing Cloud capabilities.
       : SOAP API provides comprehensive access to most email functionality.
  
   
   Cloud Page :A Cloud Page landing page is a web page that we can view from a browser or link to other websites and emails.
              :we use AMPscript to write data into lists or data extensions from the cloud page.
              
  Manual Import: There’s always a manual import option to directly import CSV files into SFMC lists or data extensions.
  
               
 26)How is data shared between 2 Business Units (BU) within SFMC?
    By placing the data extension (DE) in the Shared folder in the parent BU. 
    After switching to the child BU to view the shared data extension in the ‘Shared’ folder.we can use the data in this DE in the child BU.
    
 27) What other communication channels can be used/supported in SFMC to target our customers?
     Apart from Email,SFMC has Mobile Studio which has 3 core features to target customers.
     MobileConnect: It is used to Create, send, receive, and track SMS and MMS text messages.
     GroupConnect: It is used to send messages via messaging apps LINE and Facebook Messenger.
     MobilePush  : It is used to create and send notifications to a mobile app.
     
28) What is Hard Bounce and Soft Bounce In Salesforce Marketing Cloud?
    Hard Bounce - A hard bounce is an e-mail message that is  returned to the sender because the recipient's address is invalid or the domain doesn't exist.
    soft Bounce - A soft bounce occurs when the email server rejects the email message due to a seemingly temporary condition,
                   such as: Address is temporarily unavailable due to an inactive or temporarily disabled mailbox
                          : Recipient's mailbox is full
                          :Temporary domain failure
    Note : The Marketing Cloud makes 288 attempts to deliver the email message. If all attempts are unsuccessful, it is considered a soft bounce.
   
   
    
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               
               


     
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
     
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
    
                         
    
    
                       
     
    

    

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
