1)What is Salesforce Health Cloud? and What are the core functionalities of Health Cloud?
   Salesforce Health Cloud is a cloud-based CRM (Customer Relationship Management) platform specifically designed for the healthcare industry.
   Health Cloud offers features for:
   Patient management (including a 360-degree view)
   Care plan creation and management
   Appointment scheduling and reminders
   Social determinants of health tracking
   Integration with Electronic Health Records (EHR) systems

2) Explain health care data model ??
  There are many type of health care data model 
  a) Household data model
  b) Clinical data model
  c) Health insurance and claims data model ( Member Plan and coverage benefit)
  d)Care program data model(program for which patient is getting enrolled)
  e) provider data model(           )
  f)Social determinants of health data model(care barrier and care barrier type)

3) what is person account in health cloud ??
   A person account is a single record that combines account and contact information to represent an individual person,such as a patient or member.

4) what is FHIR( Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources)??
   FHIR(Fast Healthcare Interoperability Resources) is a healthcare data exchange standard.It allows different electronic health record systems( EHR) to communicate
   with each other seamlessly.It helps doctors to easily access a patient’s full medical history,regardless of where it was created.

5) What is Health Cloud HL7 Integration?
  HL7(Health Level Seven)is a standard for exchanging healthcare information electronically.Health Cloud integrates with HL7,
  enabling seamless data transfer between Health Cloud and EHR systems.

6) What are Care Plans in Health Cloud?
    A care plan gives the healthcare team a history of patient and the progress or challenges related to their health.
    Four component of care plan :
    problem 
    task 
    goal 
    care team

7)  What is HIPAA full form and what does HIPAA compliance mean in Health care ??Who must be HIPAA compliant?
    HIPAA :Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
    It sets rules for how health data must be:
     Protected
     Used
     Shared
    HIPAA compliance means a U.S. laws that protect people’s medical information.
    
    Who must be HIPAA compliant?
    Doctors, hospitals, clinics
    Insurance companies
    Pharmacies
    Health apps or software that handle patient data
    Any vendor working with health data


8) Health Cloud–Specific APIs??
  FHIR APIs: Sync clinical data from EHR systems into Health Cloud
  Clinical Data Model APIs:It is Used to store
                           Conditions
                           Allergies
                           Procedures
                           Medications.

 Consent Management APIs: Manage patient consent and data-sharing permissions
                        : Critical for HIPAA & privacy compliance

  
    
    
















   
   
   
   



















  


